Okay,
we live.
Hi.
I've got some guys here doing uh work on
the AC,
but I figured I would at least try to uh
get a little bit of a stream in today.
I've also just been doing the
presentation for RLC. I had to make that
this morning.
pretty well done. Okay, so let me show
you what I want to do now because
doing a million things lately and there
it's occurred to me that there's one
like
relatively at least not horribly
mindbending thing that I can do that's
kind of important to have done for
Puffer, which is uh just the the build
system, right?
apparently. Well, we'll see whether this
is just hallucinated garbage, but there
should be a better way.
No build isolation package. This looks
good.
But is this actually in UV
or is this hallucinated garbage?
Ah, this is actually a thing. So,
disable
isolation when building source
distributions for a specific package.
No build isolation package equals.
So then I guess
the question here is there's a high
product toml and a UV toml.
What is the difference between these
two?
If a pi project tol is found uv will
reuv
okay
takes present
can't do this with
can't do this with C extensions and CUDA
can you say hey something
let me see to what extent this is
the most important thing I think at the
moment with puffer is we need the C
extensions and we need the CUDA
extensions Right.
We do see extensions with with
UV.
Somebody's gotten this.
Okay. So, this actually
generated.
Um,
okay.
This is kind of part of it.
I don't think that this works perfectly,
right?
Yeah. So, you still end up with setup
tools even with UV and setup tools
sucks, but like these other things don't
freaking work,
right?
Welcome YouTube folks. I should say what
we're trying to do today to give folks a
little bit of context. So, uh, I kind of
pride myself on having Puffer be just
the easiest to use, like most
userfriendly, best supported RL project.
And it drives me batshit insane that
like we have so many people with setup
issues.
And like I've put a lot of time into it
already, but like this is just so
important that it's worth actually
getting this right. And there kind of a
few different reasons that this stuff is
hard. So let me So first of all, if
you're doing a pure a pure Python
package with no extensions, no CUDA or
nothing, and you don't you're not doing
anything crazy, Python packaging is not
that hard. It's kind of insane that they
keep adding breaking changes to the
build system itself every other version,
but it's not that bad. Now, as soon as
you start doing like C extensions
and CUDA extensions, uh, Python build
system just sucks.
So, pretty much what I'm trying to
figure out how to do is how to wrangle
this in a way that users are going to
end up with fewer bugs.
I took your advice on how to learn ML
and it's going good so far. Very good.
Welcome, Spirit.
It does take some time. Honestly though,
getting good at programming and ML
fundamentals is the hardest part.
Like you can do a lot once you have
those fundamentals.
XT modules.
This is kind of sucky because there's no
way to do this automatically, right?
set up. I'm trying, man. It's hard.
That's why I figured we'd stream today,
right? We'll stream a little bit of it.
I saw couple of the extra commands in
your blog. Pretty easy.
surface some of the help thread
happy to go through. I mean ideally like
okay the best case scenario is that we
just work around this so that people
don't hit these bugs. The second best
just thing is that we like minimize and
document, right? But I don't think I've
tried pretty hard to fix it but I don't
think I've tried hard enough just yet,
right? Like there are a few things I
haven't explored and that's what I want
to do right now with you guys.
I have no idea what I'm doing with this
by the way. Like I am not I don't
maintain a million packages. I don't
have deep knowledge of the build system.
If anybody wants to help with this like
live here a Okay.
where this is.
So, like things that we haven't tried,
right?
I haven't really tried more native UV
style stuff.
I don't think there's a way to get rid
of the setup.py
uh thing entirely.
I think that the most likely thing
that's going to happen is we'll at least
find like some better workaround for how
we build extensions, but I think we're
still going to have to keep the big
messy setup.py and everything.
Can't help. May the force be with you.
Thank you.
I honestly I think yeah this whole like
pi project tommo [__] is
I think this was a dumb decision for
Python packaging in general like it
can't do all the stuff that you do. So
now it's like we have two things instead
of one
s Python
for scikit build core.
Okay.
About 9
able to
and
torch.
The scikit build core just wrap setup
tools.
I want to see what this is.
Oh, that's kind of ass, isn't it?
Wait, does not use setup tool.
They say it's glue and then they say it
doesn't use setup tools.
Yeah. I don't want to see make
face thing. This is dumb.
This is worse, right?
Yeah, I really don't want freaking cm
make
if I can avoid it.
I mean, that's like enough reason to not
use this as is, right?
Yeah, this thing's incredibly stupid.
Okay.
You also end up having to use setup
tools anyways.
build Just
I think everything depends on setup. set
up tool, right?
Like there are no alternatives to setup
tools
even though it's a pain.
try
search like simp
not really I honestly I don't use um
I don't use LLMs heavily enough for
anything that like any of the like any
of the new versions really matter.
Like basically all the big labs just
leap frog each other every other month.
It doesn't matter enough to me to like
use whatever one is currently people are
saying the best and keep across all of
them.
What is Mason?
This a thing.
Heck is Mason.
What is this
build tool wrapper for
this? Wait, is this also
Yeah.
We don't want any build system at all is
the thing.
Like we basically just want freaking GCC
and CC cache
languages.
I mean basically all we want, right?
Well, there are a couple things. We need
whatever the hell is required to build
CUDA, which is NVCC plus whatever
garbage is tied up with that, right?
But then our actual C extensions,
we literally just need GCC.
And like everybody always is trying to
stick make files into everything or C
make files at least just like no, stop
it.
Why does everybody always want to make
the build system complicated as hell for
no reason?
Like, oh, just one more build system,
bro. Just one more. Just one more build
system.
I think you're stuck with setup tools no
matter what.
Yeah, toml and setup pi.
So, basically stuck with what we have.
But maybe we can do maybe we can
basically just port chunks of this
torch. What do you mean the lid torch?
Oh, that's Jason. Sadly, I don't know
enough about Python.
So, Tim, it's just like various build
issues where people not being able to
install easily because of uh things that
have to do with how we build extensions
and setup tools versions and
dependencies things.
I think probably
I got to go figure out between a UV file
and uh
else. So,
don't do this.
Look, UV docs.
it come. Yes, it is.
So, right now we only ship
basically we don't ship the pre-built
CUDA, right? We just ship the source and
then the package builds it on your
system. Um because I really really don't
want to have to ship our own CUDA
kernels like our pre-built ones.
Technically, if I have to down the line,
we can do that. But that's like it is a
massive massive pain in the ass to ship
a pre-built Cuda.
Like technically, right, we could just
ship binaries for everything and then
like everything would work instantly. I
don't think I'm ready to do that though
because like
having a having a way to ship binaries
on something that includes CUDA is just
horrible. If I didn't have any CUDA, I
think it would relatively okay.
Okay. Okay. So, we have this
Okay.
UV decks.
Maybe this.
Okay. So I guess we can try this stuff,
right?
Let me understand um their UV toml
versus pi project toml.
Okay. So, I don't think we need this
unless is there anything.
Yeah. So, it doesn't even make a UV toml
by default. It just does uh a pi project
tunnel.
Okay. So these add and remove are just
like these straight up don't do
anything, right? They just edit the
toml.
Yeah. So this is like a poetry.
You don't want a lock file, right? This
is like poetry style and lock file means
can't use package with anything because
everything is pinned.
I mean I guess it is kind of like a
lightweight docker in a sense, right?
That's kind of like a weird in between
to me though. like pin all the packages
but not Docker is like it's kind of like
eh I really don't want things to go
wrong but I don't like I don't actually
care enough to make sure things don't go
wrong. The docker makes sure things
don't go wrong.
Okay. So,
I think we just need like move some
stuff.
I think like ultimately
just do something like this.
See what we can do with this.
We have our camel here.
We don't have a UV section at all.
We can do like tool.uv
build
uh
thing like this.
Oh, hang on before I do this.
have tool UV
this
is
then there should be a guide on this
right
like to set this up with UV
Hey, how's it going? Welcome,
Desh. I am working on making Puffer
easier to build and install. Fewer users
have errors.
as a build back end.
UV build backend only supports pure
Python code
projects with extension module.
UV supports creating projects with the
following build systems.
What about just setup tools?
Setup tools works, doesn't it?
Okay, this is just the default.
Okay.
Well, we're getting somewhere here. I
just read this.
There's also project.scripts which goes
here.
Are you on Discord?
Uh, I shouldn't be on Discord right now,
but Puffer is on Discord. Yeah.
Is it UV pip install or is it UV build?
What is it?
Or is it you pipe?
Use UV to set the VN source. It then
uses PIP.
Yeah, but like
you see the thing, right, where it's
just like, oh, it replaces PIP and all
these other tools except then you
actually still have to use them.
Tread latest. No, I don't spirit. I
really don't try like the latest any
model.
Like generally in my view, it's like all
the models just suck
and I basically just use them to look up
docs
pip. Yeah. I'm trying to see is does
that actually use pip or is it like
their version of pip
like I know I can do Yes.
cannot
provide a value for scripts
listed under
the hell is this?
Why wouldn't I be able to do that?
This is literally just
is it dynamic scripts
dependencies?
Oh,
this doesn't need to be.
And I'll just do this.
Wait. Project optional dependency build
equals
file.
You see what this is
by default. UV builds all packages in
isolated virtual environments as per
this absolutely braindad stupid pep that
is the source of all evils because
Python developers suck.
I'm sorry I misread that. It just says
as per pep 517.
Some packages are incompatible with
build isolation. It intentionally
or unintentionally
disable build isolation for specific
dependency. Add it to no build isolation
package.
Yeah. Didn't you know this is an
entertainment stream? Kidding. Disable
build isolation for specific dependency.
Add it to no build isolation.
I think that's good, right?
Installing packages without build
isolation requires that the package
build dependencies are installed in the
project envir prior to installing the
package.
This can be achieved by separating out
the build dependency and the package
that require them into distinct extras.
For example,
[Music]
First, sync the extra build dependency.
Damn it.
Swear to God, that guy, you're freaking
seriously broke my build.
I got to freaking ban him from doing
[__]
This works good.
Okay. So, let me understand this thing.
Optional dependencies
build and compile.
What you would do here is
sync extra build. Well, no. This isn't
what a user would do because this is all
from source.
setup tools wheel, Syon, Numpai, and
Yeah. But build system is going to then
mess it up, isn't it? Because it's go
get the wrong numpy or something.
Wait. By default, the project will be
installed in editable mode. Okay.
the UV sync and UV Done.
Locking and syncing are automatic.
Well, we don't want to use these, right?
Cuz this interface is dumb.
Okay, so we do want the UV pip interface
cuz this is like mini docker without the
guarantees and actually dumber.
This is like the poetry interface.
Well, I mean, think about it for 3
seconds, right? What happens when you
have a lock file? You're basically
telling everybody else to go screw
themselves because you're going to pin
every single version of every single
library and therefore make it impossible
to use with anything else. You're
basically saying your thing is the top
level and everything else can just go
screw itself.
different purpose.
Well, but like even if I want to give
you that interface, right, the goal is
to have an interface where everything is
pinned so stuff doesn't break. This
doesn't even guarantee that stuff
doesn't break because people have
different system packages, right? The
only thing that actually guarantees that
things don't break is you hand somebody
a Docker that actually guarantees that
the thing will work.
Okay. So,
need numpai at build time. Torch at
build time.
980 run thing.
First PC I built was two 980 Ti.
Let's see what other garbage is in here
that like we can potentially
improve upon.
Literally running a Linux env. Yep.
You
library is I'm pretty sure the most What
do you mean?
Well, presumably you're already running
on a Linux host anyways or you're
trolling, right?
and like if you're not on a Linux host
and you're worried about the Perf, like
I'm way more worried about you trying to
do crazy ass stuff on Mac going to break
everything. Like I actually probably am
going to have to go get a Mac just
because of the number of Mac users who
are getting stuck on dumb stuff because
it's like just not a real like not a
real dev platform.
At least the Windows users will go like
install WSL and get what's reasonably a
native Linux environment, a reasonably
native Linux environment. Like the most
bugs, more bugs than anything come from
freaking Macs.
versioning for LM6.
Yeah, I like to just ignore all the
LLMs.
Kind of sick of the LM everything.
It's like so dumb. If you just drive I'm
in Palo Alto and if you just drive from
Palo Alto to SF, you will go by
literally dozens of the dumbest LLM B
billboards you've ever seen.
Okay, so there you go. That's like five
mill steps per second breakout with
compile.
Of
course, it actually takes longer to
train with compile than without because
Same hardware was greater than one hell.
Looks good.
Okay. So, I guess I move.
I don't know the format. Let me see.
There's like
this.
Hey, Weston. I'm trying to make Puffer
easier to install and use.
So, I guess we get project optional
dependencies.
Do cleaner Welcome.
Oh, we don't need this [__] anymore at
all.
Doc is just a separate repo.
See if this is broken.
Docs is not the
on
cannot provide a value for optional
dependencies listed under dynamic at the
same time
dependencies and option.
Okay, what does the dynamic flag do?
You understand this?
Okay, I'll be right back. Let me use a
restroom real quick. We're going to
actually make some progress on this
today. I think this will finally like
this will fix a lot of people's build
problems unless I break more stuff in
the process, which is why I wanted to
stream this. So hopefully you all can
just help me test it. Be right back.
guys doing water.
By default, UV will only rebuild
reinstall local directory dependency.
the root directory or if a source
directory added a remote. What
add cache key
different
not what we care about, right?
What are you building?
Ultra high performance reinforcement
learning. You can see all sorts of our
demos on puffer.ai.
Train agents. They'll run live in your
browser. You can play the games
yourself. Not all games. You can also
like fly drones and do other things as
well.
Oh, it's a big open source project. I
stream most of the development. I'm a
researcher. Sometimes I'm doing cool
algorithms. Sometimes, like today, I am
just doing user stuff to try to make it
easier for everybody to play with the
software.
Right now, I'm currently trying to
figure out really fiddly things with uh
users not being able to build packages
as they should.
I see you're at the fun part.
I made my RLC talk earlier today.
I don't know. I felt like I'm just kind
of burnt on everything. So, I figured
out, okay, this is pretty easy and this
is actually really important. So,
it's just like it's easy. It just takes
forever to figure out the details. I
figured I'd do this. When are we doing
net hack? Man,
are you done with RLC stuff yet?
It doesn't take that long to make these
presentations. All right, look. I'll
show you my my slides
here. We'll do the exclusive, not so
exclusive for this stream preview.
It's all open source. We have tons and
tons of like new RL people coming in and
learning this stuff and contributing.
Where did I put it?
Show you my slides for this. I think
they're not bad.
Boom.
Training demo. The GIF, how we train it.
Near MMO demo.
This, this, this, this. That's it.
Not bad, right?
Honestly, only took me a couple hours to
throw it together and then it took uh
couple more hours going through it,
seeing if I liked it.
Not bad.
Yeah. So, this article is not remotely
what I was uh expecting.
Put a day or two in and we can chat
about it at RLC. Sounds good.
Just packing and doing that hack.
Oh, yeah. That's going to be fun.
I got a I got a giant pip I can send you
as a bonus for uh getting Net Hack
working with Puffer.
Send that off to Canada.
We might have to set up an incentive so
that you actually get to net hack cuz I
want to see that stuff work too, man.
That's it's big. I hope you have like
you have space for it. It's like it's
like three or four feet.
You're not getting one of those feels
though. Those feels are mine.
Two more years of intense research, so I
decided to take it easy. Yeah, fair
enough.
Honestly, I just want to get back to the
intense research because it's a heck of
a lot more chill than the crap I've been
doing lately.
Growing company is not necessarily hard,
but it is a pain in the ass.
What is this dynamic crap?
Bugging baselines. Realized it was a
really dumb bug in gymnasium's reward
normalization build perf. Eh,
dude, just delete all the rappers. Why
are you using those? They suck.
Oh, yeah. One thing to know is we by
default we just clip negative one to
one.
works. Yeah,
but we did it specifically cuz like some
M's have dumb rewards and they just
won't learn.
Don't
statistical standard deviation
works. So, if it works well on
everything, we'd consider it, right?
Flipping has been a really decent
baseline for us so far.
We have more core algorithm
improvements, by the way, that I think
we're going to be able to make soon. At
least one of them. We have one very
promising candidate
and give Spencer a couple days to take a
crack at it before I
publicize that. I think it's a decent
one, though.
Um,
what the heck is this dynamic arc?
I guess it just means comes from.
Maybe we can just stick all the depths
in, right?
I think we just like go through and
move all this crap.
I think you don't even need this
everywhere, right?
probably.
That's again.
Crafter still
kind of sad how like much attention
stupid crafter has gotten. I guess now
at least some people are using craft
decks is better. The original crafter m
is just terrible though. They had such a
freaking embarrassment.
Okay, so this thing
uh this thing just needs gymnasium. I
probably just need
Um,
Ed
surely doesn't need gym and gymnasium,
right?
Surely just needs this
agent is
kind of pointless to be honest because
you like you really just don't need it.
Meta
This should be a gymnasium. Yeah.
Any hack doesn't need gem anymore,
right?
Oh, shoot. It does.
That's dumb.
Thought net hack got updated, didn't it?
Nope. Freaking gem.
Ridiculous.
And neural MMO. I don't remember. So all
of these is
head.
All this crap
up Jen
and Vizdoom.
So,
uh I should now be able to
this comment.
I believe this is how it works, right?
You do like this
text.
Hopefully this will be a little cleaner.
I don't know. We'll see.
It'll actually make it easier to just
like swap in and out dependencies a
little bit, I guess.
Eventually, I'm just going to end up
going and like dropping a bunch of these
anyways, right? Like there's so many of
these old environments that like
technically compile but are so stupid
and broken that like nobody uses them
anyways.
Plus they're slow.
Kind of just bloat and there's not
really a point in dealing with them.
There was like a stage in building
Puffer where I was kind of just trying
to make Puffer be the best thing between
everything else. Like the best
gobetween. Uh that's not what Puffer is
anymore though, right? like puffers. We
have our own stuff now in basically
every category and it's better. So,
we're kind of just doing legacy support
plus like a few historically important
environments.
And most of these can just get killed.
Now we get rid of optional depths I
guess
from here.
No optional dynamic depths.
extras.
I guess common is like an
never do this though. Anyways,
let's just get rid of this.
Yeah. So this is like get rid of this
should be better honestly. This be
simpler.
Gym version not defined.
Hang on.
All requires
Hey Tim, I just got Puffer installed and
training. It's really easy on Linux. How
do weights in the resources folder work?
Uh, they work like this, Tim. Well,
actually, I'm not going to be able to
show you on my local or I mean my
remote.
Show you this.
They're really just for like they're
mostly for our web demos and plus
debugging. But what you can technically
do, let me see if I have my environment
set up correctly.
All right. So, bash scripts build ocean
like pong for local or faster web.
And then if I just do / pong, this is
running in pure C with no Python, no
PyTorch, nothing. So those resources
files
um those bins in there are loading
weight or have weights in a binary
format that can be loaded from state.
This is just running through our like
standalone C neural network library that
we have as part of puffer.
Pretty cool.
Let's see how fed the puffer is today.
Anybody
feed the puffer?
He's getting decently fed.
374 stars.
Funky puffer. Get him.
So eventually after I don't know I have
a a a revenue milestone in my head where
once we hit it we'll we'll get like the
puffer touched up and we'll get a a nice
animation set for him.
All right. So this says
says this works.
That's not bad, right?
Get rid of this crap.
and this is still a bunch of crap.
I think we're good.
What is it? It's UV build or whatever.
Build source.
UV publish
test that the package canal
UV run.
What we do like this?
Okay.
still doing material science. I'm not
doing it right now, but yes, we are
still doing material science. It's
actually like one of my top two things.
I'm just kind of burnt on hard things at
the moment. I'm doing easy but important
things right now,
you
Wait, what? It built a wheel.
How the hell did it just build a wheel?
We'll try this one First,
[Music]
This works.
Okay, this is fine.
Uh, hang on. No, this one is expect this
is expected. Fine.
But I guess technically there is a wheel
build, right?
I could technically upload this wheel
and then we would have like a wheel for
one specific setup. I guess it's not
terrible.
Not a bad Okay.
What would be the best test of this?
I guess what we'll do is I'll like I'll
ship this to 3 0
and um
yeah I'll just I'll ship this to 3.0
and we'll wait to do a new package
release. This will already be in the
source.
do that.
Okay. So, good.
Now we have our local
and we can just do
integration possible or is it too slow?
Yeah, we've already had people do Majoko
stuff. If you really want to do Majoko,
I would suggest using MJX,
there already a binding for it. I'm
pretty sure
there wouldn't really be a point to us
doing our own M's with Majoko cuz it's
like it's slow.
Um,
we I think that's what's more likely is
we'll slowly expand. We'll do like a few
of our own Sims and then the heavier
stuff we'll try to bind like the least
bad existing Sims.
See
how this goes.
Guda version.
Okay. Well, this is like a separate,
right?
This is my janky setup.
Let's check on
Okay, this runs.
Super old CPU. 90K is good.
And it renders.
If I go to a different directory.
Sometimes we have to check this.
Okay, this is a a wrong permissions
directory, which is fine.
We'll just do this random directory.
Okay, that's a permissioning screw up.
That's fine. That's just WSL. It's
trying to link to the correct place.
I think that's fine.
Let's uh put in the Discord.
Where the heck were it? Screenshots.
Yeah, I didn't see them.
I guess they're probably on the PR.
That works. We can get rid of it on the
docks.
How to not get bored while studying.
Um, you're probably studying boring
stuff.
Oh, there is no way to not get bored
when you're doing boring things.
That is not how it work.
trying to think if there's anything else
I can improve on the build system.
This should basically fix.
I guess there's still potentially Mac
[__] right?
I think somebody reported like MPS not
working or whatever.
I mean, this should fix like the vast
majority of stuff.
Yeah, I think this is pretty decent
overall.
Okay, so we have set up.
I think this is pretty much it. I think
this is about the best we can do at the
moment.
I can technically ship the new wheels at
some point
like in a 3-1 or something,
but this should be
this should be some decent progress.
Okay, I didn't actually expect to get
this done so quickly.
400 p.m. Probably still have another
couple hours to do stuff.
What do we do next?
Body watching have M's? They want a PR.
Mind reviewing an N or two.
Where are all these M's that people are
making?
It doesn't have legs yet.
Oh yeah, there's also this whisker racer
end, right?
I didn't play with that yet,
but the guy who's uh who did that is not
upper targets. I am.
All right. So, I see that there's the
lunar lander end and the racing end. I
could have sworn that people had more of
them though, right?
Like, didn't people post a whole bunch
of other stuff recent? Yeah. What's Now,
this is Tetso doing stuff.
Where's all the other Where are all the
other things? Okay, this one is good. I
can go through this.
I mean, regardless, those are two good
ends to get merged in. Right.
Go take a little look at the whisker
end. I'm going to have some fun.
No such file or directory.
Okay. So, you did not commit file, my
guy.
I have a fresh PR somewhere.
I have a fresh PR.
We'll check this.
Oh, holy. We have a lot of M's.
Actually,
this is great. We have like all sorts of
off.
Invert when you need them.
Oh, he did ship me the weights. I can
yolo this for now.
Pull this in.
Oh, this is clean.
Look at this.
I love this.
Look at that.
That's a great environment.
Shift M is a screenshot.
Tab is full screen.
So shift is me trying to control it
myself and failing horribly.
But you can actually do it. I'm just
bad.
Oh, it's actually doable. I'm just
really bad. Hang on.
Yeah, I'm just really
Yeah. So, this is a good time to mention
I don't actually have a driver's
license. Kind of just suck at all
control tasks
before. I've never really tried that
hard, but still. Yeah.
environment.
Racer.
Next.
Look for controls.
Oh, it's M.
I don't know what you're doing here.
Oh, it's way easier to steer in first
person.
Cool.
This is me playing now.
can tell because it looks awful. Now, if
I take my hands off
agent is way better.
I do think this is probably going to OM
stuff eventually. I don't know what it's
doing. Texture.
Huge amount of args, man.
We'll help him clean this up a little
bit, I'm sure.
Yeah, at least mess with it a little bit
for
970 lines.
see what this builds.
We have this
decent, right?
I just want to be able to switch the
dang view.
I want to get into ML and AI. What are
some good starter resources? The guide
that I wrote exactly for this purpose
because I get this question all the
time.
Here's the RL1.
Here's the ML1.
There you go.
Got it.
Honestly, the RL side of stuff is pretty
fun
if you're interested in that as well.
Okay, so now I should be able to shift
M.
H.
And I guess you go off the map.
Hey, Puffer, you're not supposed to be
able to go off the map like that.
Did it not reset correctly?
Delete code. Nope.
Do I want to change the colors of Yes,
we leave this one as is, right?
Oh, yeah. There's a bug.
All
right. So, now
go over to the better machine.
Pull this
And then we should be able to train this
thing. Yeah.
3 million steps per second.
But why is this thing trained for like
no time at all?
Why is that a thing? Huh?
Not like go up more. This full solved
Oh, looks like it gets better.
Yeah, this is like way better, right?
Hello, men.
Welcome.
Okay.
There we go. That's So that's fixed.
I guess the fast does not work on him.
Holy
Uh yeah, that doesn't look like it's
very good, does it?
What the heck happened.
enjoys nice picnics. See, I don't know
what's wrong with him. Hang on. He's
just drunk or something.
I told you guys not to give the puffers
alcohol,
right?
They don't do well with it.
Just like not an amazing policy. It
looks like
now it works.
Why' it crash a couple times first?
Is that reproducible?
Crashes.
And it's chilling.
Oh yeah, but this one doesn't work.
Probably a policy mismatch.
Well, we will leave this to um
to Kinvert, but this is a very nice
environment to play with, right?
Quite nice.
Oh, you know why? Hang on. I know. I'm
just
Hang on.
Why dumb?
There we go.
Way better. All right.
Very nice environment.
Good enough to stick an initial version
on the website. No.
Uh, we need [__] a lot of stuff we need
to do for this.
Okay. So, that's nice. Nice.
Already up to date. It says
and we need a screen as well, right?
Where do we put whisker eraser?
I kind of just like roughly order them
kind of according to complexity.
Couple of these are misplaced. I think
I think I put it before freeway.
It's a good spot for it. Honestly,
Pac-Man's not getting enough love.
I think I like swap a few things
actually.
Like let's put Pac-Man before Freeway.
Honestly, Freeway Freeway needs to go
down a little bit. It's a pretty simple
end
can go before Breakout maybe.
And then
I think Whisker Racer goes right after
Tetris.
That'd be my preference.
Not this one.
What is this thing?
Car racing.
I
around track.
action.
I totally just messed this crap up,
didn't I?
Copy this. Undo all this garbage that I
just did.
Yes.
Description
eight.
And then we can actually uh change But
hey, Tim. So, it seems like creating
realistic Sims just got a lot more
valuable.
Uh, what are you referencing?
Uh yes, but that doesn't necessarily
mean you need realistic Sims, right?
Those are not necessarily the same
statement. In fact, it's not how we do
stuff very often.
You can get something that works in the
real world without having a realistic
sim.
wrong with this.
Um,
well that yes, but like so for instance
the drone sim that we're working on,
it's just very heavily domain
randomized, right?
It's not like we're modeling
turbulence and stuff, but we're going to
be able to have it work just by heavily
domain randomizing.
You'll see.
Uh, why did this like server thing not
work?
Did this not just work?
I want to see if it works on the
website. Why the hell does this not
Where are we right now? And we're
banning this bot first. Then uh where
we're at is
we're getting a new environment onto the
website for you all to play with.
doesn't work either, right?
All right. Well,
do I want to just push this to the
website and see if it works?
Hey,
quiet stream day. But then again, I'm
kind of just working on random crap. So,
it's important random crap though, some
sense. We did push today the uh the
build fixes that should make it a heck
of a lot easier for you all use Puffer
and get it installed without having to
post a million support messages.
Let's see. We'll see whether this gets
onto the website in a second.
And we let's depending we might will
either uh check two other things. Might
be able to merge one more today. We
might not.
Website's not broken immediately.
No racing envy either. Go check on the
AC, guys.
Yeah, turns out installing AC is a bunch
of work.
80° in my office.
Die in here.
Where's the Whisker Racing thumbnail?
What the heck?
Why is my thumbnail not
should be now?
There's the updated moa, right? Like I
actually got the is updated, but somehow
this other thing didn't.
Eraser thumbnail whisk.
Oh, that's why
There we go.
That'll take a little to build.
See what other stuff people have
submitted me.
Go open my presents.
Don't
wait. What is this?
This one I'm going to have to look at.
They're docs for protein like how to run
and use Neptune.
There you go my guy
right here.
Neptune B
protein is the default.
Hey, look at that.
Job Kvert. Please do finish your
environment. But uh I like it. Well
done.
Well, submitted me cool things
on this page. Installation.
What?
Doc type fix and a different clearer
table of
if I like this.
Yep.
Suppose we'll merge this for now. We'll
see if I like it.
Wait, this is you.
If you're still here, kidding. What is
this
artillery?
What?
I was asking for help. Not sure you want
to pull this. Oh, okay. Yeah. What do
you want me to do? One other cool thing
in here, isn't there?
This is actually a pretty high-fi one,
right? Like, this is a pretty decent
one.
Big PR.
Take a PR.
know where he is. Where's the amazing
Working on an aim trainer sim.
Having trouble getting it to
six cubes of a random color.
Are you rendering it?
Wait, are you doing rendering during
training?
that like at all fast.
Okay. So, I don't like the on this page
banner, but everything else is fine.
Style changes are good.
kept asking about this. So, we're going
to fix this real quick.
Okay, we're going to commit this to make
sure I didn't break anything.
Polished a few things.
This end looks so freaking good.
Okay. So,
pretty good.
Happy with this overall.
Okay. So, next would be
quick little end.
Okay, so quick review of this.
I don't know why you would do this in
here.
Okay.
Yeah, but it's fine.
Left, right, up, down. Okay, this is
fine.
Like pretty standard.
Does not include a policy.
silly mem set but fine
random room. Okay. So it is
substantially randomized.
But just randomize both and it's good.
A very good way to clear. Good job on
this.
agent
back on grid. This is pretty sane.
There's a timeout as well, which is
squares. I'd say this is a pretty
generous timeout, but sure.
And what's it have in here? Size.
Okay. And then the OBS is just eight
channel. Good
seven action.
Pretty
solid little end.
Uh, something screwy happened here.
Something very screwy happened there.
Where was this guy?
Heck.
Convert.
Okay, so
this has 3,000 freaking messages.
That's freaking crazy.
Well, that's all pretty well set then.
Lot of scrolling. Yeah.
Well, I'm trying to just like fix a lot
of the common stuff, right? But I think
I fixed a lot of the setup today. I got
one new person's env onto the website,
though. They like usually people PR like
90% completed ends. It's much better if
you actually just finish it, but if it's
cool, I kind of merge it anyways and
just say, "Hey, please finish this."
Like this one's really cool, but it's
only 90% done. Really?
Isn't this kind of just cool to watch?
It'd be a lot cooler if it drove
smoothly.
To be fair, also the policy could better
like I said 90% done environment.
Welcome, Snow White.
As am I.
That without a sweep. Uh, I don't know
what they did.
This is not a particularly difficult
environment though. Uh there is a bug in
it that's making it a lot harder to
learn. Like I found that uh it can go
off the road and basically just get
stuck off the road. I told Kvert to fix
that. That's his end.
Some of the ends that like are just
really cool. I love Tetris. This env is
probably one of the coolest to just
watch.
Like just look how cool this thing is.
Might
as well just ask my question for that
end then. What is the advice on cleaning
up the last bit of the policy? My sweeps
haven't been getting to getting it where
I would like. Uh well, what's your end?
usually that there's a pro like it's
usually a problem with your data like
odds are wrong or like it's not
resetting correctly. Like this one here
for instance like sometimes it goes off
the map and actually just like stays
running around off the map.
Okay, let me see what this vision test
thing is.
Not that much code.
800 million steps and doesn't solve.
Okay.
Okay. So this is every axis I guess
have a renderer on it.
Wait, what?
Oh, I see. So, this is
you're using ray stuff, but you're not
actually rendering it. Using it for
raycast. Is that it?
Does it actually work?
Kind of curious. I'm going to go take a
look at your end real quick.
This is kind of a cool environment.
Yeah.
Vision test.
for really important policies that worth
doing best of by a large number of
um
if your training is stable you would
probably just train for longer.
It really shouldn't be that unstable.
Like you can technically construct
environments where sometimes it works
and sometimes it doesn't, but usually
you should end up with um pretty
consistent training curves.
Mostly like the crazy training curves
are mostly a relic of um just all sorts
of other jank.
You need our camera separately or
something, man.
I got Rayb.
Yeah, you did. Okay. Where do I get it
from?
I just need this one file.
Just this
Okay. Well, this is going about a
bajillion times too fast.
Be human playable, right?
this thing actually work.
I'm going to be very, very impressed if
this actually does anything.
I didn't think something like this would
work.
I really didn't.
Uh, I can just mess with the FPS, right?
You always want it human playable when
you can.
How the wait.
Um, I should have done this on my
I should have done this on the other
machine, shouldn't I have? How fast does
this thing run?
curious.
I'm going to train this actually. I
thought you made it sound like you wrote
some dumb test environment, not like you
did something like legitimately
ridiculously freaking cool.
Kind of undersold it a little bit.
That runs 7 mil.
Uh, how is it rendering?
Wait, dude. How is that rendering?
What on earth?
Oh yeah, this is going to need the
vision file, right?
I'm reading what the trainer was
outputting.
Um,
yeah, but like if you can actually get
lowfi rendering to work in like
reasonably interesting scenes, even if
it's like really lowfi rendering, like
uh I'm not making any promises, but like
that's actually something that like we
would be interested in for like contract
work.
Like that's actually a pretty damn major
thing for us if that works.
Like that would basically let us do like
our own drone rendering and stuff. Uh as
well as like when we do six degree of
freedom arm, we could do that. Like you
realize all this the stupid renderers,
even their lowfi run ones run like
30,000 steps per second, 30,000 fps. You
can get something that runs even like a
million
I didn't think that that would work
because you're doing CPU rendering and I
thought that it would fundamentally be
too expensive of an operation.
That actually works though.
I'm running this on GP.
The rendering on GPU.
No, no, no. Cuz the environment is still
on CPU, isn't it?
How in the hell?
Well, you're right that it's not
learning and this is a very simple
problem, so it should learn.
Um,
nah. There's no way, right? Like, how
the hell, right?
Really?
Four times three.
Is it like 8 by 8 by 3 or something?
What?
Okay. Well, I can help you fix this.
0 to 255 the numbers.
thing has like a
help you out.
This actually works. I will be actually
like I will be very excited about this.
Um
I don't see how the hell you have this
What's it called?
Wait, why is there no config for this
thing?
Should
be a config somewhere now.
What do you do
or something like
where did you put the config?
Well, you must have cuz it rains.
I don't see how
config.
Why don't I have it here? Oh, because
I'm stupid. That's why.
No, being stupid would do it.
observations are empty.
Hang on.
Hey, they're going to finish AC today.
Hang on, let me see.
How do you like training on nothing?
kind of a bad thing to mess up.
You ran a sweep before you checked if
you actually had any data.
Where's compute observations?
Wait, what?
Yo, render is not getting cold, man.
So, it's just not actually doing
anything.
Yeah, you literally 7 million steps per
second cuz you're not actually
rendering.
Yeah.
Well, damn. That makes sense. Yeah.
I was going to say.
So, um,
were you the one asking about headless
rendering before or was that someone
weird as I was when I was training it
training when I was running without the
um I mean it's possible that like it
learns to just go to uh
like learns to actually just look at one
of the boxes and then you can get one6th
of the reward.
Yeah, that can happen.
But were you the one asking about
headless rendering? Because kind of have
to have that working. want to use rail
functions to render's
not here. Yeah, that's cool.
did bear random at 25.
I'm saying yeah. So like Ray isn't going
to let you render not headless
by default. Have to get it to render
headless. But here's the thing. This is
why this stuff is usually hard, right?
Um,
like usually rendering is just very
slow. And then the type of stuff people
do to make rendering go fast,
stuff like this,
like a batch renderer.
For very simple scenes here,
they actually can get like over a
million steps per second.
Like for stuff like this, they're still
getting like 200 to 300,000.
And the high fidelity ones get lower,
right?
Thanks for direction. Yeah, let me know
like if you actually got something like
that working. I'd be very surprised and
there would be like immediate
applications of stuff.
Very immediate applic. It would
basically mean that the entire graphics
community has been trolling this entire
time, which I doubt. It's possible.
Usually those guys actually know what
they're talking about.
Naively, I would think that it would be
more flops than you have on C2.
Be my guess, though.
I don't know. Maybe you end up getting
like 10,000 steps per second per core.
And that's actually kind of useful even
even if you do that.
way I'm beating those guys. Yeah,
he's in the uh the Discord. It's uh
Brennan
Brennan Shackleton. He's in the Discord.
Probably local in this area. Actually, I
met up with him at Stamford
HD.
There's anything else in puff or
discord.
I don't know. I got a little bit of time
before dinner.
I'm going to play a little bit with the
um
play around with it.
kind of curious.
I like the little lowfi preview thing.
Like it's a nice end. It's just I don't
know how you actually get it to do that
reasonably quickly.
might be able to just do like a super
dumb software rendering. string
patient.
Okay. So,
23%
time in the forward pass,
4% time in copy.
Have some ideas. What ideas have you
got? Rendering
other stuff.
Puppy time is kind of ludicrous.
rendering.
All right.
I mean, yeah, if you can get it to work,
it would very good.
I'd love to have like a super simple
software renderer. I don't know if it's
actually going to do anything. Like to
be fair though, you can technically just
paste a super simple software renderer
into CUDA and have like a super simple
GPU renderer, right?
And vector grab color and pass those.
Yeah, you can do that. That's like what
you're doing there is like lowfi ray
tracing, right?
Lowfi ray trace.
This is saying that it's basically
tapped.
Come on, guys.
Hey
guys are
Okay. Hopefully they did not just do a
total hack job. I like other than the
light, I don't really know.
Uh I have some plans for some days I
think.
I have like one lunch thing
probably
be.
Oh,
anyways, I fixed a bunch of
infrastructure today. Should be a lot
easier to install and use Puffer. I
merged in a cool new racing environment
that you can play on the website
already. And uh oh, I forgot to stop my
stream. I totally forgot to stop my
stream.
What the hell are you all doing still
watching me? Go do one.